Microsoft Fabric:
-----------------

Microsoft Fabric is an all-in-one analytics solution for enterprises that covers everything from data movement to data science, Real-Time Analytics, and business intelligence. It offers a comprehensive suite of services, including data lake, data engineering, and data integration, all in one place. 

Microsoft Fabric brings together new and existing components from power BI, Azure Synapse, and Azure Data Factory into a single integrated environment. 

The data from different sources(huge data, big data from various sources) --> loading into Data warehouse as tables--> using these tables, people will create reports using powerBI tool.

when you are reading the data which is from different sources, the data will be huge which is Big Data, okay? the data warehouse tables will not load all the data from the sources as it is. It has to do some filteration like what is needed, what is the subset of the data, what is the meaningful data, only that meaningful data or needed data will get processed from the sources and finally land into the datawarehouse tables. 

On top of these tables generally people will create some reports, for example a report that will show how the revenue is growing. So, the tables will act as a source for generating reports using the powerBI tool.


powerBI --> to generate the reports -->  the people who create the reports are called as data analyst

datawarehouse table --> subset of the big data --> the people who takes the data from different sources and finally putting into the data warehouse are called data Engineers. So, Data Engineers will take the data from different sources and then they will transform it into some meaningful data. Then they will transform the data into Data warehouse Systems.


To do this ETL(Extract, Transform and Load) operations, we need something called Data Factory and for the Data Warehouse needs, we needed something called synapse


So, Microsoft Fabric is SaaS Foundation which has OneLake(which is a big storage and built on the top of gen2) that integrates capabilities like Data Factory, Power BI, Synapse(Data Engineering, Data Science, Data Warehouse, Real-Time Analytics). 

Data Factory -> data integration, the ETL pipeline part, taking the data from different sources, transforming and loading 
Synapse Data Engineering --> apache spark part,
Synapse Data Warehousing --> SQL Table part

Synapse Data Science --> Once you have the data in the data warehouse, not only you can create powerBI reports, you can also create ML models and educate these models, train these models with your buisness data. So, that these models can predict the future


Synapse Real Time Analytics --> This is like Azure Data Explorer, ADX, kusto, if you have any IOT devices or sensors, they will feed huge amounts of the data, is also called generally observational data, so on top of that on real time, if you want to query the data and want to see how the things are working  



In OneLake only, all the data resides, whether your warehouse data or your source data. And as I said, OneLake is built on top of the gen2




Microsoft Fabric:
-----------------

The Fabric trail requires a PowerBI License. Navigate to 


step 1: create a Outlook account(https://signup.live.com)
step 2: Join Microsoft 365 Developer program




3.

Capacity: Capacity is dedicated set of resources that is available at a given time to be used. Capacity defines the ability of a resource to perform an activity or to produce output.  Fabric offers capacity through the Fabric SKU and Trails. 

Experience: A collection of capabilities targeted to a specific functionality. The Fabric experiences include Synapse Data Warehouse, Synapse Data Engineering, Synapse Data Science, Synapse Real-Time Analytics, Data Factory and PowerBI 

Item: An item is a set of capabilities within an experience. For example, the Data Engineering experience includes lakehouse, notebook and Spark Job which we define as items.

Tenant: A tenant is a single instance of Fabric for an organization and is aligned with Microsoft Entra ID. 

Workspace: A workspace is a collection of items. It acts as a container that leverages capacity for the work that is executed and provides controls for who can access the items in it. For example, in a workspace, user create reports, notebooks, semantic models.




4. How to create a workspace in Microsoft Fabric:

Workspaces are places to collaborate with colleagues to create collections of items such as lakehouses, warehouses and reports.

imagine like one folder, for your entire organization, fabric ID will be there with a tenant ID and inside this fabric, your entire organization may have so many different projects, so that different project people will come there and create their own workspaces and they create a fabric item inside of it


to create a workspace:

select an experience by clicking on Microsoft Fabric in the bottom left of the page (you can select Data Engineering Experince)

Once you selected the experience, the left tab would have many icons, there you can see workspace icon 
Then click workspace and create new workspace 




5. Roles available in workspace and give access to users in workspace: 

Workspace roles let you manage who can do what in a Microsoft Fabric workspace. 

There are 4 roles in workspaces: 

	1.Admin
	2.Member
	3.Contributor
	4.Viewer
